Adr logging monitoring (#2586)
DFE-Digital/apply-for-teacher-training: adr/0014-alerting-monitoring.md

# 14. Alerting and Monitoring

Date: 2020-08-03

## Status

Accepted

## Context

The team have recently discussed Apply's approach to alerting. By alerting we mean that we are notified when:

1. There's is an outage

> 2. When the service is partially down, like DfE Signin or a specific page

Author: ```suggestion
2. The service is partially down, like DfE Signin or a specific feature
```

3. Candidates can’t make applications, though no errors are thrown. For example because of a bug.
4. The system is performing so slowly that it's not usable
5. Before there's an outage

We currently have the following setup for alerting us that something is wrong:

- Azure availability alerts. Azure checks [the healthcheck endpoint](https://www.apply-for-teacher-training.service.gov.uk/integrations/monitoring/all). This checks if the application has database connectivity and is processing background jobs correctly. Azure availability tests records failure only on the third failed attempt and we are notified ~5 minutes after a failure.
- Smoke tests [run after each deploy](https://github.com/DFE-Digital/apply-for-teacher-training-tests). These tests sign in to the service and make sure that the service is usable.
- Sentry [tells us when exceptions occur](https://sentry.io/organizations/dfe-bat).  

> 
> ## Decision
> 
> We've discussed expanding the things we alert for. For example, we could alert on lower-level technical issues like disk space, memory leaks, or high CPU. These alerts could potentially give us advance warning of infrastructure issues.
> 
> However, they would also increase the possibility of false positives. <<MORE>>>
> 
> The team is comfortable with the current availability monitoring setup in Azure and being alerted in the Slack channel in the event of an anomaly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We've discussed expanding the things we alert for. For example, we could alert on lower-level technical issues like disk space, memory leaks, or high CPU. These alerts could potentially give us advance warning of infrastructure issues.

## Decision

**We will not add monitoring for low-level system metrics** as we have confidence in Axure (it's been running fine for months now) and we have confidence our current smoke tests and availability tests will pick up major problems. If we did find, for example, that memory leakage was at the root of an outage, we would add monitoring for that particular metric.

**We will continue to be alerted in Slack** for service availability and Sentry exceptions, and we will continue to improve our smoke tests
```

> **We will not add monitoring for low-level system metrics** as we have confidence in Axure (it's been running fine for months now) and we have confidence our current smoke tests and availability tests will pick up major problems. If we did find, for example, that memory leakage was at the root of an outage, we would add monitoring for that particular metric.

Author: ```suggestion
**We will not add monitoring for low-level system metrics** as we have confidence in Azure (it's been running fine for months now) and we have confidence our current smoke tests and availability tests will pick up major problems. If we did find, for example, that memory leakage was at the root of an outage, we would add monitoring for that particular metric.
```
